There were 2 dealbreaking factors:
~ correct area representation
~ names labels on country

---



---

Whether or not to label the countries was a difficult decision.

After printing out the first few pieces on paper, cutting them out and playing with them two thing were apparent:

~ It was fun!
~ If there were no names it was abstract

[[PHOTO HERE: img_1517/img_1518]]

Fitting together random shapes is possible, and even fun. Although this is just an abstract puzzle problem, it's not really relevant that it's the world, it could be anything. 

Pros: 
~ makes it way harder

Cons: 
~ makes the "world" and educational aspect kind of irrelevant.
~ a *lot* of work, a big commitment.
~ might be prohibitively difficult

The more I thought it through it became more and more essential that I include the names. I know the names of a decent number of the moons around the planets in the solar system because of a board game that I had when I was a kid.

I could imagine a case where 10 year old me would be able to put an unlabelled version of this puzzle together no worries but just based on shapes (like: the roundy-one-with-a-wiggle-on-the-bottom goes next to the long-thin-one-with-a-hooky-shape-on-the-end).

Including labels the player would inadvertantly be learning, eg Botswana goes next to Namibia or Mauritiana fits in to Mali, even if the person doing this has no idea what these labels represent. I love that kind of education, the type that activates in some other circumstance without you realising you've learnt anything.

It was suddenly deal-breakingly important to have country names.

Little did I realise that this opened up several impressive cans of worms.

~ What countries
~ What names
~ How exhaustive (obviously entirely)
~ Placement
~ Contentious states
~ Label sizes


The names of countries also varies on a range of factors.

The Europe dread deepened at this point. Though I'd tackled the cut-pieces for Europe early: in the same sitting as with Africa because I wanted there to be no bias in the physical size of pieces just because of the continent they were in (I mean if France gets more-or-less its own peice so should South Sudan and Somalia by area*). Putting the names of the 39 sovereign states (+ 2 contested states) of Sub-Scandinavian Europe on the 8-odd pieces was something that particular time would need to be set aside for.

[[PHOTO: img_1516 (or 15)]]

Suffice to say, I was going to do the labels for Europe last.



Countries for inclusion
-----------------------


Country Label Placement
-----------------------

Initially when the sizes were really small I put the country names all around the edges 


Country Label sizes
-------------------

The sizing of the names is something that I'm not entirely satisfied with.

After I made the decision to include the names I labelled all of Africa as it was the only region that had country outlines at that point.


The sizes had to vary as 

I did them at three sizes: 2mm, 2.5mm, 3.5mm.





Over the wintery last weeked on May, R was travelling and I locked myself in to finish all the "tracery". 

Alone the 2 pieces named A28 (Germany to Slovenia, 9 states) and C39 (the Balkans, 8 states (seriously 'Bosnia and Herezegovenia', why? why such a long name, wwwwhhhyyy??)) took 3 hours (of my life) to put name labels on. I tried 3 different arrangements for C39. I actually thought I was done around hour 2.25 but then I noticed I'd forgotten Kosovo. Before I could get sad I rearranged again (I had many possible arrangement pretty well in my head by then so had an idea where/how it could fit) and managed to get it in. Note in writing this (on my final day of checking in early-June) I've realised that Kosovo is on the "maybe" list for inclusion which is why it wasn't there.

